Hello and welcome, everyone. My name is James Blair. I'm a senior product manager at Posit,
focused on cloud partnerships, primarily focused on Databricks. Today, we're going to spend some
time talking about data engineering using Positron, which is a new developer tool that
we've developed here at Posit and Databricks, and how these two tools work together to complement
one another. To set the stage, we're going to talk about a business problem that we can use
to anchor our discussion against. I'll provide a little bit of an introduction to Positron and
how we plan to use that alongside Databricks. Then the bulk of our conversation today will be
spent in a live demonstration of using Positron alongside Databricks to build data engineering
workflows and pipelines. We'll have a short kind of comparison at the end of what it means to use
a true developer environment or integrated developer tool like Positron versus native
features like Databricks notebooks, and when you might use one over the other. And then we'll have
some time for Q&A here at the end. So, let's – again, let's set the stage a little bit. This will be a bit
contrived, and I recognize that, but this will at least help us kind of anchor to something that we
can use as a motivating factor or a motivating problem throughout the course of this discussion.
Let's say that a topic of interest for us is understanding how weather impacts New York City
taxi trips. The distance, the fares, how does weather impact some of this? Now, some of you
may recognize that there's some convenience to this question, and the convenience is this New
York taxi dataset is built into every Databricks environment, so you automatically – if you have
access to a Databricks environment, you automatically have access to this data about taxi trips in New
York City. However, this taxi data does not contain any weather information. It has information like
the trip distance and the fare amount and the pickup locations, but it does not contain any
information about the weather during the trip itself. So, what we want to be able to do is we
want to be able to supplement this existing data inside of Databricks with some new data that
provides context around weather, and with that new data, we can begin to answer additional questions
that we have not been able to access or answer previously, questions like how does temperature
impact the trip distance or how does weather impact the fare of the trip, things like this.
So, in order to get there, we have to – we have to be able to bring some new data into the equation
so that we're not just looking at what happened with the taxi data, but we also have the ability
to start to uncover a little bit of why we might see certain things, right? Why were some trips
more expensive than others? Maybe it was weather-related. Why were some trips longer than
others? Again, maybe that's due to the cold temperature or something of that effect.
So, we're going to use this sort of framework, this sort of hypothesis here to anchor against
as we walk through and look at how Positron can help us with these kinds of questions and with
this kind of work. In order to succeed here, what we need is we need some sort of historical
weather data that we can integrate and join with the taxi data that's available inside of Databricks,
and ideally, we'd like this to be as granular as we can. Hourly feels like a pretty good level
of granularity so that we could match the hour that the trip occurred with the weather in New
York City at that particular hour, and then we can – if we can define additional characteristics,
not just temperature, but precipitation, other weather patterns, we have greater ability to
understand this interaction between weather and these taxi trips in New York. So, let's – what
we're going to do is we're going to work on building this sort of pipeline. If I'm in an
organization that comes to me and says, look, we have all this taxi data, but we want to understand
the impact of weather, and this could be anything else, right? This could be we have a bunch of
demographic data, and we'd like to add X, Y, and Z. We have a bunch of loan data, and we'd
like to supplement that with this. And I think this is a fairly common request of we have our
existing data inside of our data lake or inside of a warehouse somewhere, and now we've decided
that we want to add or supplement that with something new, and maybe we already know the
source of what that new data is going to come from. Maybe we need to go and explore and figure
out what are some viable sources. But regardless, there's this process sort of in the beginning of
what does our existing data have, what do we need, or what are we missing, where can we find it,
and then how do we pull those two pieces together? Once we've figured out how to pull those two
pieces together and combine them into one sort of bigger picture, how do we create some sort
of reproducible way of doing this? How do we build a pipeline? How do we build some sort of workflow
that will enable this to take place over and over again as new data is introduced
so that we have current, up-to-date, reliable data that supplements the existing data inside
of our warehouse? To do this, like I mentioned at the beginning, we're going to be using a tool
called Positron. In fact, we're already there, and some of you may have noticed these slides are being
given out of Positron itself. So, we're already in the IDE. We'll expand to other features of the IDE
here in just a moment. But what Positron is, is this is a next generation developer tool that we've
built here at Posit. We're very excited about what Positron offers. We've been working on this
for a long time, and we've been very excited over the past couple of years to really start bringing
this into the spotlight and showcasing the hard work that's gone on behind the scenes.
The thing that makes Positron unique, and again, we're already in Positron here as we're talking,
is this is built on top of VS Code, like many developer tools are today, built on top of the
open source components of VS Code. But we've taken everything that we've learned as a company
and organization in our experience of building RStudio, the premier developer environment for
our developers. We've taken all the lessons learned building RStudio and applied them
to this multilingual developer tool that's very, very focused on data science and analytics.
What that means is, while VS Code provides a very robust tool for software engineering,
a lot of times people will sometimes refer to VS Code and similar tools as very fancy or complex
text editors, which they are. And then they're supplemented with extensions and all these other
things. But at the root of what we're doing, we're manipulating text, we're writing code,
and VS Code provides a lot of useful functionality around working with lots of files and mapping
dependencies between them and all these things. Data science is a little bit different and working
with data is a little bit different, because in many cases, you're not just writing and then
compiling something static. Instead, you're working in sort of an interactive environment,
whether it's Python or whether it's R, I have some sort of running process. And in that running
process, I'm loading libraries, I'm adding data, I'm exploring, I'm generating plots,
I'm making visualizations. So there's this very sort of rapid feedback loop that's happening
when I'm working with data. And one of the things that made RStudio so successful for
such a long time, and this is not, you know, for those of you that are users of RStudio,
this is not a signal that we are abandoning the RStudio project or deprecating that in any
sort of way. We will continue to maintain RStudio, that this is not a change of direction, rather this
is really an expansion of the tools that we provide. But one of the things that's made RStudio
so successful is this idea that I have an editor and I have an R runtime that's actively
receiving commands from the editor. I have an environments panel where I can see what I've
loaded in my environment, what data objects, what variables, what things I have access to.
I have a packages pane, so I have all these different things that sort of helped me through
this fast cycle of thinking of a question, writing some code, executing it inside the R runtime,
looking at the results, and then repeating over and over again at a very, very high
iterative speed to sort of hone in on some sort of specific inclusion. And while we often think
of that process as very focused on data science, I think there's actually quite a bit of overlap
with that idea and data engineering, particularly when we're exploring a new data source or a new
component or a new set of data that we want to join to existing data like what we've described
here. So, Positron is, again, built on VS Code. It has native support for R and Python. There's
other things that we plan on adding support for in the future, SQL and some other things.
And there's also native support for the whole ecosystem of VS Code extensions. So,
the Databricks extension works inside of Positron. Other extensions that you might know and love
having used VS Code work inside of Positron as well. So, you get the benefit of this vast
ecosystem of tools inside of VS Code with the added benefit of native R and native Python execution
that's built into the product itself. Okay. With that little bit of an introduction,
let's jump into a demo here. So, again, we're already in Positron. I'm just going to minimize
this sort of side panel over here that has our slides. We'll come back to these in a moment.
And this is what Positron looks like. We're not going to spend a ton of time kind of orienting
ourselves here. But again, if you've used VS Code previously, you'll recognize that this
looks and feels a lot like VS Code. One of the things that's a little bit unique is that I have
this console down here that has currently a running Python session. And if I wanted to
start another Python session, I could. If I wanted to start an R session down here,
I could do that as well. And now I have both Python and R running concurrently. And as I
switch between the two of them, Positron recognizes like what the active interpreter is.
And so, my environments pane, excuse me, my session panel will show different details. So,
here's R452. Here's my Python environment. So, some nice things here that just make it easy for
me to quickly move between the different parts of exploring and working with data.
One of the things that's new to Positron that we'll highlight here is this catalog explorer.
So, over here on the left-hand side, I can choose this top icon, which allows me to view
my file system. But down here at the bottom, there's this catalog explorer. And in this
catalog explorer, I can come in and I can take a look at the different Databricks catalogs and
schemas and tables that I have access to. So, in here, I can see some different bits of information.
If I came into samples, I could come in and take a look at this NYC taxi,
trips data. And I could go ahead and right-click on this and say, let's just
go ahead and preview this with Python. I can choose a SQL warehouse that I want to use for
the execution here. So, we'll say we'll use my demo warehouse. This one, I'll fire open,
copy some code to my clipboard. I can execute this here inside of my console. And this is going to go
open a browser window, authenticate me into Databricks, and then come back here in Depositron.
And I'll now have this trips variable that will represent, and we can see the SQL statement here,
represent the first 1,000 rows from this taxi trips data. And over here on the right-hand side,
I can pop this open and I can see different details about the variables that are here.
I can click on this icon to explore this. Over here, I can see what's available, what this data
looks like. I can get some summary statistics information about the distribution of different
values here. So, now, I've got the ability to come in. I can connect to Databricks. I can explore
what's available there. This is the first half of our problem. We want to understand this trips data.
And again, this is available to every Databricks account. So, if you have a Databricks account,
there's this sample catalog in there. There's this NYC taxi schema, and you've got this trips
table that's there that you can access. And here, we have information like the time of the drop-off,
the time of the pickup, how long the trip was, what the fair amount was, what the zip code was
where they were picked up, where it was dropped off. So, not a ton of information, but enough to
make this a fairly compelling set of data, and particularly compelling when we start to supplement
this with additional details like weather. So, now, let's turn our attention to that. How do we
get weather data into here? Well, the first thing that we need is we need some weather data.
And there's many different places we might look for this. We're not going to spend time today
searching for the best possible weather data. But one thing that I do know is that there's a
historical API called OpenMeteo, or OpenMedia, I guess, that supports historical weather reports
from different places. And so, we can use this open API. It doesn't require a key or any sort
of authentication. It's rate limited, so we need to be conscious and good stewards. But we can use
this open API to fetch some data that might be of assistance in this particular circumstance where
we're trying to add weather data as a supplement to this taxi data. In order to do this, so,
historically, I could go and I could read the API docs, and then I could come in, and I could open
up a new Python file, and I could go through, and I could send some queries to the API, and figure
out what endpoint was the right endpoint, and build out sort of step-by-step how I want to access
this data and what features of this data I'm interested in. There's nothing wrong with that
approach. That's the way that we've done things for a long, long time. However, here in 2026,
the landscape of tools has rapidly changed over the course of the past year, and particularly the
past six months. So, we're actually going to turn to a tool inside of Positron called Positron
Assistant that we're going to use to help us explore this API. So, we're just going to come in.
Positron Assistant is an AI tool built into Positron that does what you would expect modern AI
agent tools to do. It gives us access to foundational models. We can see I'm using
CloudSign at 4.5 here. This is configured to use AWS Bedrock. I could use Anthropic
natively. I could use OpenAPI or OpenAI. I've got a number of different ways I can configure
this particular assistant with the model that I want to use. Here we're using CloudSign at 4.5,
and the thing that makes Positron Assistant a little bit unique is that not only does it know
what files I have and what the contents of those files are, it also knows information about my
current session. So, I can see here in the context, it tells me that it sees, it has
information about my current runtime, Python 3.12.9, which is this session right here. So,
it knows that I have this TRIPS data loaded, and it knows that I've got a connection to Databricks
and some other things there. What we're actually going to do, though, is we're going to come in
here, and we're going to say, okay, let's look at some Python code, and let's write some Python
code to go and inspect this OpenMedio API and just fetch some data from January 2023. And we
could, you know, we could adjust this data if we wanted to. We could make the change here. But
let's just say, let's just go and kind of explore this data a little bit. So, we'll fire this
request off. And this request doesn't really depend on my current session. There's not a lot
in my current session that is going to impact this particular request that we have. So, even though
it's adding that as context, it's just going to say, okay, I'm going to write some Python code
that's going to fetch this hourly data. So, it's now imported requests and pandas, and it's
identified the latitude and longitude coordinates for New York City and reached out to this OpenMedio
weather API endpoint with this latitude and longitude value, a date range, and it's asking for
a few different values from this sort of hourly report, temperature, precipitation,
wind speed, and then we've got the time zone defined here. This is really nice, right? I
didn't have to write any of this by hand. I could have written this. I can easily review it here,
and I can see this looks like what I would have probably done if I would have gone right through
the documentation and put this together. There's nothing in here that appears to be off or egregious
to me. This looks like it should work. We'll run this here in just a moment. We'll be able to kind
of see the results. And then it gives me a little bit of a summary about what it's doing. We're
using NYC's coordinates. We're fetching this thing. So, it gives some sort of a response here.
And I can come in and say, okay, let's actually run this data. And you'll notice that this ran
inside of my – let's minimize this side over here. This ran inside of my active console. So,
I can now see that I have this weather data that has come from this API, and it's returning
valid values. I've got temperature here. I've got precipitation. I've got wind speed.
So, I've got what I want, or it looks like I have what I want from this dataset here,
which is great. This gives me something that I can start to work on.
So, now that we have that, we could spend some time exploring it a little bit further here. If
we wanted to, we could say, like, help us explore with visualization. And I could be more prescriptive.
I could describe a specific visualization, right? Maybe we want to look at precipitation and wind
speed or the relationship between temperature and precipitation. But we'll just kind of leave
this open-ended. And this can generate code that's going to make a plot, and the plot's
going to show up here inside of my IDE. So, I have, again, kind of everything that I need.
It's going to be mad because Seaborn's out there. This is nice. It'll ask permission to install that
package. So, it says, okay, you don't seem to have Seaborn or Matplotlib. Do you want to install
those? I can choose which level of permission I want to give this. We'll say this is okay. It'll
pop open here. I'm using UV to manage my Python environment. So, this will use UV to make sure
these packages are available here in this environment. Once this is done, Positron
Assistant recognizes, okay, it looks like those packages were installed. This looks like, yep,
Seaborn was installed successfully. Matplotlib was installed successfully. Now, let's run this
visualization code again, and we'll get this resulting visualization that will appear here
inside of our viewer pane in just a moment. So, this becomes a really powerful way
to quickly interact with and explore new data or existing data, right? We could do the same thing
with the TRIPS data inside of Databricks. Here, we're doing it with this data that we've queried
from this API, but it gives us a very nice iterative way to sort of work through our
data in real time, and here's our plot here. And so, we've got this nice plot that shows
temperature across the month, precipitation across the month, wind speed across the month.
So, a really nice sort of laid out collection of plots here to understand the data that we're
looking at. And I didn't have to open a separate window. All this is rendering inside of Positron.
Okay. So, now, we've explored this data. We have a kind of a sense of what's available,
and now, we want to start thinking about how we can join this data to the TRIPS data that we have.
Now, if we look back at our TRIPS data, which we've got pulled open here,
we can see that these pickup times and drop-off times are from 2016, right? So, this 2023 data
that we just queried isn't going to help us here. We're going to need data back from 2016.
And then, we've loaded sort of this first 1,000 rows of this TRIPS data into our Python session
here inside of Positron. So, what that does is we now have sort of like a little bit of a local
sandbox where you can say, okay, let's sort of put together how we can join these things together,
see what that looks like, and then, we can start to build a pipeline that we can push out to
Databricks to build this sort of systematically in a very sort of data engineering frame of mind.
So, let's come back over to Positron and say, okay, we have some taxi TRIPS data from 2016.
Let's query the API again and see if we can join weather data by hour to the taxi data.
Okay. So, again, we could, based on what we've already received from Positron Assistant here,
if we go back up and we look at the data or the query that was sent to the API,
we could easily come back and kind of modify this ourselves. And we could say,
let's change the dates to align with the maximum minimum date in the TRIPS data.
And then, let's go through and submit a new query. And then, we can aggregate and then join that back
to our TRIPS data as we need to. But we can also just come over here and we can kind of describe
what we're looking for here to Positron Assistant. And it will start kind of working through what
we've described. And we can keep track of what it's doing. We can see that we've got this TRIPS
with weather that's now been created. And we can start to see, if we scroll through here,
we can start to see how it's put this TRIPS data together. You'll also notice, and maybe you saw it
down here, there were a couple of errors that came up as this was going, right? It joined,
it made a weird join. It had a value that didn't make sense. It was through an error here.
But because Positron Assistant has access to the console that we're working with,
this Python session, it saw the error, addressed it, rewrote the query, and moved on. And we
didn't have to go back and say, hey, you know, this actually created an error. Can you fix the
error? It was able to do so automatically. Part of that is because we've enabled this to operate
in the sort of agent mode where it has a higher level of autonomy to go and do things. And if we
wanted to pull that back a little bit, if we wanted to stay in a little bit firmer control
of what was going on, we could change the leveling here. We could say, just ask for
permissions for everything, or you do have added permissions. So we have the ability to change kind
of the behavior and the autonomy level that this tool has. So now that we've kind of let this run,
let's come over and let's just take a look at our TRIPS with weather data here. So we'll pop
this open. So this shows, just like we saw in the taxi data, the pickup date time, the drop-off
date time, trip distance, fair amount, pickup zip code, drop-off zip, pickup hours. So now we've
created this – we've taken the pickup time and we've rounded that to the nearest hour because our
weather data was only hourly. So now we've got the pickup hour, and now we have the temperature
of pickup, the precipitation of pickup, the wind speed of pickup. And then we've also created
these – it went above and beyond, as AI tools are destined to do at times. And it's created this
sort of temperature category. So is it cold? Is it cool? Is it mild? Like, what's the – what is the
feeling or, you know, what's a categorical definition of the temperature? And a Boolean
to indicate whether or not there was precipitation. Not the level, but just was there or was there not
precipitation. Which is great. So now this gives us – kind of proves out this idea that we can
do what we set out to do. We can take this taxi data, we can join it with this weather data that
we've collected from the API. And if we go back to our original sort of hypothesis here,
that allows us to start to answer questions like, how does weather impact the distance that taxis
travel? How does it impact fare? Is there – the amount of fare that church? Is there a real impact
there? We can start to look at some of these questions. However, we've only done this for
1,000 rows. This trips with weather is just the first 1,000 rows. And it's not in Databricks.
If somebody else wanted to use this data, this is just sitting inside this session,
this Python session in Positron. So we're part of the way there. We've proved out what we can do.
And the next step is to say, well, now let's define a way to do this programmatically inside
of Databricks and on some sort of scheduled cadence in the event that this was a live table.
Now, the taxi data is not being actively updated, so it's not like we're getting new taxi information
dumped in there all the time. But if this was a true sort of business scenario,
then you could imagine that that's what's happening. We have new data that's coming
into our data lake. And then we're going to periodically reach back out to this weather API.
We're going to grab the new data that's available there and join the two things together
to create this up-to-date sort of joined dataset that's available.
So we want to make this sort of up-to-date joined dataset that is regularly available to
other users inside of my Databricks platform. One of the ways that we could do this is we can
leverage Databricks asset bundles or DABs. So Databricks asset bundle is kind of at its core.
It's this YAML file that helps define a series of different dependencies and configurations
of this bundle of resources that we want to deploy to Databricks. And then we can define
sort of the behavior associated with that bundle. We can lean on and just for the sake of time here,
we're not going to go through the whole exercise, but we can lean on tools like
Positron Assistant to help us create these things. So we can come in and we can say,
hey, like now that I've proven that I can join this data with this data, let's create a Databricks
asset bundle, which is how we created this one, right? Like let's create a Databricks asset bundle
that helps us do this on a regularly scheduled basis. So here we have this Databricks asset
bundle, this Databricks.yaml file that provides some details about this bundle that's been created.
And in here, the thing that I want to highlight, there's a few different pieces here,
but the thing I want to focus on is we have these resources that we're including as well
that define a couple of different jobs and pipelines that are part of this bundle.
So if I come in and I look at our resources, we can see that I have this weather integration job
here that defines a job inside of Databricks that runs daily at 6 a.m., runs every day. It
has some parameters around the catalog and scheme that are being used, the date that we're starting
and ending. These represent the start and end dates of the New York taxi information. And then
it goes through and it defines this task to go fetch the weather from this OpenMedio API. And
we're using this notebook that was created that contains just the Python code that we've already
walked through to go fetch the data for the API. And again, a lot of this can be rather easily
generated using tools like Positron Assistant once we've sort of laid the groundwork, because we have
all the context there. We've shown how to grab data from the API. We've shown how to query Databricks
and where that data lives in Databricks in terms of what catalog and scheme it's part of. So now
we just have to kind of put the pieces together in a way that is compliant with this sort of
asset bundle, with this asset bundle structure. So this task goes out and fetches this new data
from the historical weather. We have a second task that runs the pipeline. And if we look,
part of this as well, if we pull this open, if we look at our sort of ETL transformations that
we define in here, we're using Spark declarative pipelines or Lakehouse Spark declarative pipelines,
I think is the technical term for this, where if we come in here and take a look, we're defining
these DP tables that inherently understand data dependencies. So what this does is this
allows us to publish this job and the associated pipelines. And then when these things run,
they understand what dependencies are needed so that things run in the right sequence and order
and fail gracefully if there's an error. And we can look at all this, right? And all this will
be on GitHub. We'll share the link at the end if you want to kind of explore the different pieces.
But if we come in and we look at how we deploy and run some of this. So in here, in our,
inside of our project where we have this Databricks YAML file defined, we can simply
run this Databricks bundle deploy from the Databricks CLI that will take that YAML file
and everything that it defines and the dependencies that it contains, and then deploy this to
Databricks. Once that deployment is successful, we can also execute this bundle run that says,
now execute that in real time or execute that at the trigger and execution for that.
And if we run this, we'll see some feedback here in the terminal that gives us an indication that
we've uploaded the bundle files. So that includes all the different declarative pipeline information
that we have as well as the notebooks that define reaching out to the API. And then we can see that
we've now started this weather integration, this weather integration job is now running.
And if we pop open our Databricks UI here and come over to jobs and pipelines, we can see that
this weather integration is currently executing. And I can see down here, this particular flow
right here is currently running. We can click into this and see where we're at. So currently,
we're in that fetch weather data portion where we're running that fetch weather notebook.
And if we click in, we can see details about where we're at in that notebook execution.
So we can see here, each of the different steps, we grabbed 4,368 weather records.
And now we're writing that weather to a new table. We're writing it to weather underscore raw.
And now that table contains this weather data that we fetched from the API. And if we come
back here and we look back at our run, we've now moved on to this declarative pipeline.
And in here, we have a number of different dependencies that are currently being mapped out.
And then we'll see a number of different inputs here. So we have this weather,
the weather raw table gets read in here. We're pulling the taxi trips data. And then we're
creating a number of materialized views based on this data that we've pulled in from this
OpenMedia API. So we have data that we've gathered from the API. We have the New York City taxi data
that's already here inside of Databricks. This pipeline is now bringing all those things together
and then generating a number of different materialized views. And you might, you know,
there's a number of different ways people might look at these views. You might be familiar with
bronze, silver, gold layers and levels of data. This would fit that abstraction, right? You could
have a gold level of sort of reporting, aggregated information. You could have a silver layer of
the joint data. And then you have your bronze layer, just kind of the raw tables that are
feeding into these joints. So we see each of these sort of in sequence here, all defined
inside of this Databricks asset bundle. And the advantage of that is if we come back into
Positron for a moment, all of this is just sort of standard Python codes. When I look at my
weather data source Python file, this is just Python code. And because it's just a Python file
and I'm working inside of Positron, I have access to debugging capabilities. I have access to,
we highlighted this earlier, but I haven't talked much about it. I have access to the Databricks
VS Code extension. So if I wanted to run things ad hoc inside of Databricks,
as I'm developing things here, we can do that. And I have the ability to
use version control and operate in a way that allows me to work really well with this,
with the files that I'm operating with and collaborate with others through tools like
Git and GitHub or whatever the case might be. And that's a nice community. Developers have
sort of developed, we'll say developed, right? Developers have developed this
somewhat reliance on a lot of these tools that are first-class participants in this Positron
experience. So all the things that I would expect to have available to me, version control,
integration, right? We can see all of my Git information in here, everything that I might
want to have the ability to do, run debugging, things of that nature, are all part of this
Positron environment. I can build all the pieces here and then I can deploy those pieces as part
of this bundle to Databricks. Once that bundle has been deployed, it can be scheduled, it's going to
run. Again, that taxi data is not updating live in real time, but if I had internal data that was
updating daily or on some sort of cadence, I now have a pipeline that I can put into production
that's running on top of that data, adding new data. I can define expectations here. I can,
in fact, we can see an example of this, right? I have an expectation that there's a valid date
time. I have an expectation that there's a reasonable temperature. So I can define data
expectations here so that if something doesn't meet these expectations, the pipeline will fail
and I can be notified of it, go in and address what's going on. And all this can be driven from
Positron, leveraging tools like Positron Assistant, and then pushing the outcome and the result
out into Databricks. Okay, we're going to pop back into our slides here.
Let's pull this open, jump back to where we were.
Okay, so let's talk for just a second, and I touched on it briefly, but there's a difference
between notebooks, whether it's Jupyter notebooks or Databricks notebooks in some of the cases,
and a true sort of integrated development environment. And this is not comprehensive,
and I think there's reasons you'll use one over the other, and depending on what you're trying to
do, there's a tool that might be better suited for the job. But there's sort of a well-known
dialogue around a few common things with notebooks that you have. They're messy when working with
version control because you have a lot of JSON data that's attached versus standard Python files
where your diffs are a little bit easier to understand. Working in end and sort of sharing
code across notebooks, particularly within Databricks, can be a little bit of a challenge
versus Python. You can structure things in modules, and you can have shared imports.
There's code review can be a little bit of a challenge with notebooks. Again, going back to
sort of the Git diff challenges that we have there. Unit testing can be a little bit tricky,
although there are some frameworks that I think can help out there. But if you're using just
standard Python files, you've got access to standard testing frameworks that you can leverage
to build testing around those files. Debugging in notebooks can be a little bit of a challenge.
In an IDE, you have a full catalog of debugging tools that can be at your disposal. And like we
kind of highlighted a little bit today, Positron Assistant does a really great job if it's going
and encounters any sort of errors at addressing those errors in real time. And then we also have,
you know, notebooks are a little bit notorious for the fact that cells can be executed in
arbitrary order. And so if you're not careful in the construction of the notebook, you can end up
in a state where it's not it's no longer linear. Stateless functions and the way in which a Python
file natively executes can help prevent some of that from creeping in. Just as an example, and
again, this is not we're not trying to throw shade at notebooks here. This is just sort of an
illustrative example of if you're looking at, for example, a code diff with a notebook versus a
standard Python file, you end up with quite a lot of noise in a notebook diff versus a Python file
that's a little bit cleaner to understand what's changed and what those changes might introduce.
So reviewing changes through version control can be a little bit more seamless with standard
Python files. You have testing that we talked about previously. You can define tests in one
place in your developer environment, and those tests can then be applied anywhere those Python
files run. And the idea here really is to say, look, let's have one collection of code. We can
build tests around that. We can run that code in our local environment in Positron. And then we can,
using Databricks asset bundles and some of these other tools that Databricks provides,
we can then move that code, push that out into Databricks, and run that as part of a pipeline
or a scheduled job inside of our workspace. Now, again, this isn't to say that we shouldn't
ever use notebooks. Notebooks can be great for ad hoc data analysis, doing quick experiments,
sharing results, right? Notebooks have a nice sort of format to them. It's a lot easier to sort of
look at a notebook. You've got inline plots than it is to like look at just a Python file if you're
trying to walk somebody through something. And for interactive tutorials or just kind of
interacting in real time, I think notebooks provide a really great interface. But when you're
doing sort of these production workloads, defining multiple different pieces at a time, building out
these complex pipelines and jobs, using a true developer environment, and we think Positron is
very well suited for this task, can start to have a distinct advantage over trying to consolidate
and run everything outside of a notebook or collection of notebooks. So just as a review
of some of the things we've chatted through today, Positron brings a very well thought out
developer environment for data work to the market. And it's available on the desktop. We use
Positron on the desktop throughout this entire discussion. It's also available on the commercial
side through a tool that we offer called Posit Workbench, where you can have that hosted in a
server and it's accessed through a browser. So there's a few different avenues that you can take
to access and get access to Positron. But on the desktop side, it's a free install. It's available
to anyone. Databricks asset bundles allow us to treat our infrastructure as code. We can define
different components, the clusters that we're using, what files we're including in the bundle,
how that execution is happening. Databricks asset bundles give us a really solid framework for
defining locally what we want to run in Databricks and then pushing that compute out there.
These Lakeflow declarative pipelines and Lakeflow Spark declarative pipelines help us simplify our
pipeline development. We're able to describe expectations. We're able to inherit dependencies.
And so this gives us a really nice framework for describing which data depends on what outputs and
then where that data goes from there. And the IDE itself provides workflows that improve our
reliability, our ability to collaborate, our ability to orchestrate and manage tests in that
regard. And at the end of the day, the whole premise, and if you think about who we are as
Positron, our goal is to support free and open source scientific research, technical communication,
and data science for as long as we can. And so what that means is ultimately, we want you to
use the right tool for the job. And we think we've built some tools that apply in certain
circumstances. There are certainly many other tools that are useful in applying this in this
regard as well. So use the tool that's best for you. We think Positron is uniquely positioned to
be a tool not only for data scientists, but also for data engineers working alongside platforms
like Databricks, like we've demonstrated today. Before we jump into questions, just really quickly,
we have some resources that we can share, the GitHub repository for this,
details about Positron, and then some information from the Databricks site about asset bundles and
declarative pipelines. You can visit these links and learn more. The slides are all part of the
GitHub repository. So if you want kind of one place you can go and then get the rest of these resources,
this GitHub repository has everything that we've walked through today.
Okay. With that, let's kind of open up and see what sort of questions we have,
and we'll do our best to answer those as we've got time today.